if you make a snowball and try to set it
on fire using your lighter
the thing won't melt the snow will first
turn black
then it'll start to vanish but you'll
get no water
there's nothing super natural about this
phenomenon
the snow is melting but you don't see it
because of the structure of the
snowflakes
they kind of wick away the melted water
and it gets
absorbed by the remaining relatively
loosely packed snowball
as for the black char marks they're
simply traces of soot
left by the lighter fluid a 2017
study suggested people had accidentally
created a protective bubble
around the planet all thanks to decades
of using very low frequency radio waves
they've formed an artificial cocoon that
shields earth from radiation
and solar flares helium can make your
voice go squeaky
and helps your balloons float in the air
can the stuff get even better
yep try cooling it to the extreme
temperature of negative 460 degrees
fahrenheit
that's just above absolute zero that's
when you'll see this gas
turn into a superfluid which means it
can move
without friction in this state it can do
some pretty bizarre things it can leak
through seemingly solid materials
it can stay motionless while the
container it's in is being spun
and it can even climb the walls of the
said container
water can freeze and boil at the same
time
this is called the triple point that's
when a substance can be solid
liquid and gaseous at the same time but
there's only one pressure and
temperature that can make it possible
scientists have discovered a new state
of matter
it's known as time crystals created in a
lab
they are a concept that's insanely hard
to grasp
these structures repeat regularly in
time rather than in space
and in 2020 scientists even claimed they
witnessed
two time crystals interacting
in one teaspoon of soil there are more
microorganisms than there are
people on earth bacteria microscopic
insects
algae mites fungi beetles earthworms
you name it in other words the soil
under your feet
is one of the greatest concentrations of
biomass
ever poke a hole in the side of a bottle
and let a stream of water flow
out of it then aim a laser pointer
through the bottle
you'll see the beam get caught in the
tiny waterfall
and curve downward it happens when the
light travels through some dense
material
in our case water then it hits the
boundary
with something that has a lower density
like air and it makes the light
curve our moon used to have an
atmosphere
several volcanic eruptions happened on
earth's natural satellite
around 4 billion years ago they released
immense volumes of gas
trillions of tons it was so much that
the gas didn't have enough time to
escape into space
that's how an atmosphere was formed
bird eggs come in all kinds of shapes
and what an egg looks like
seems to be down to a bird's ability to
fly the stronger a bird's flight is
the more elliptical and pointy its egg
will be
and those species which hardly ever
leave the ground
lay oval-shaped and rounded eggs plus
an egg's length always correlates with a
bird's body size
if you drop an egg to the floor in your
kitchen you'll make a big mess
but it's different if you do it in the
water say at a depth of 60 feet below
the surface
the pressure there is almost twice
greater than its sea level
and it'll hold the egg together like a
makeshift shell
the chances are extraterrestrial dust
particles are lying on your rooftop
called micrometeorites they're less than
400 microns in size
that's about one-third of a grain of
sand scientists think
around 100 billion micrometeorites fall
to earth
every year on average
the ocean is as deep as eight empire
state buildings stacked one on top of
another
this depth is even more impressive in
the challenger deep
the deepest part of the mariana trench
and the world ocean
there you could fit 25 empire state
buildings cold water
freezes more slowly than hot this is
known as the mapemba effect
one of the reasons but not the only one
is that when the hot water starts to
cool
its mass decreases it happens because
some water evaporates
there's less water left to freeze and
the process takes less time
on the other hand cold water heats up
faster than hot
the speed of this process depends on the
temperature difference between the
liquid and its surroundings
that's why cold water needs less time to
absorb heat
but it doesn't mean it'll boil faster
than hot water
zee landia is a drowned continent in the
pacific ocean
it's often described as a continental
fragment or a micro continent
its area is almost two million square
miles
about half as big as the us it went
underwater about 23 million years ago
new zealand is zealandia's largest part
that remains above sea level
people are still evolving scientists
have been tracking
several millions of human anomalies it
turns out
some harmful genes are slowly but surely
getting filtered out of human dna
mercury is one of the very few metals
that remain in their liquid form
at standard room temperature and
pressure all because
mercury atoms have extremely weak bonds
between one another
researchers claim that great apes like
orangutans or
chimpanzees can't appreciate music like
at all studies show they can't tell the
difference
even between the most opposite genres
music
is just meaningless noise to them you'd
need a drop of liquid
a state of the art laser 3d printer and
a couple of hours of work
to make the tiniest fidget spinner ever
its width will be smaller than that of
your hair strand
at least researchers at oak ridge
national laboratory
managed to do just that a camel can
drink up to 30 gallons of water
in a bit more than 10 minutes this water
is stored in the animal's bloodstream
as for its fatty hump it provides the
camel with nourishment when there's
little food around
some sea animals like salmon or turtles
use our planet's magnetic field
to find their way home in its gaseous
form
oxygen is colorless and doesn't have any
odor
but when it's liquid or solid this
substance
looks pale blue after being caught by a
black hole
a star gets ripped apart by its enormous
gravitational forces
some parts of the star's remains hurtle
into the black hole
the rest in the form of a huge jet of
plasma
is ejected with such force that it
travels hundreds of light years away
your lungs not only help you breathe but
they also produce blood cells
these cells are responsible for the
clotting which stops bleeding
the lungs make more than 10 million of
these tiny cells per hour
not so long ago scientists decided the
dinos family tree
had to be redrawn for the first time in
130 years
apparently two species of dinosaurs had
to be grouped
together from the very beginning those
were the lizard-hipped meat-eaters
like t-rex and bird-hipped vegetarians
such as the stegosaurus only two letters
never appear on the periodic table those
are
j and q spin
a ball when you drop it and it'll fly
through the air while falling
this phenomenon is known as the magnus
effect
you can see it at work in different
sports for example
tennis or baseball sound travels almost
four times
faster underwater than it does in the
air that's why divers often have
problems with figuring out the direction
of sound
bananas contain potassium and this
element
is slightly radioactive on the bright
side
you need to eat 10 million bananas
before radiation can negatively affect
you
there's a device that can put out a fire
with the help of sound waves
it's called a sonic fire extinguisher
there are underwater lakes and rivers in
the oceans they're known
as brine pools the water in them is
saltier
and denser than the rest in the area
brine pools have shorelines
and sometimes even waves stars look as
if they're twinkling
because of the turbulence in earth's
atmosphere
it makes the light from the stars move
in a different direction before reaching
your
eyes and this looks as if the light is
shaking
it takes water 1 000 years to complete
its continuous journey
around the world the whole process is
known as the global ocean conveyor belt
bismuth is a brittle shiny white metal
with a pink tinge
if you melt it and then let it cool
really slowly
it'll form iridescent cubic crystals
in the deserts of california stones move
on their own
some of these sailing rocks are as heavy
as 700 pounds
most of them move in straight lines
while others create oval turns
when the wind catches small droplets of
lava from active volcanoes
it carries them miles away from the vent
the droplets get stretched into super
thin
glass wires called hair lava some
strands can be as long
as six feet the desert rose
appears in arid places that occasionally
get flooded
the environment keeps switching from dry
to wet
and back it allows gypsum crystals to
trap
sand grains and form flat petals